# TMG_1st_ECS_Challenge_Conways_Game_of_Life
 First from scratch ECS project for Turbo Makes Games first challenge, Conway's Game of Life

## Development
This was created for the Turbo Makes Games First ECS Challenge, Conways Game of Life.  [https://itch.io/jam/dots-challenge-1](https://itch.io/jam/dots-challenge-1)

This was my first ECS code project and it was a real head scratcher because my background has been mostly GUI type coding in GUI ETL tools.  I've only done minimal line based coding in Java before this and that was a long time ago.  If it weren't for other developer's code I probably would have never been able to figure this out in the timeframe presented.  First and foremost I want to thank everyone involved in this challenge as you all have greatly helped my knowledge of this even if I didn't say much during in Discord.

I originally had to google what was this Conways Game of Life because I was originally thinking the board game Life.  I then talked to a couple of friends during this and I can tell I had different backgrounds in IT from them as they remembered it from college and high school.  I wanted to make the screen have the look of the [googled Conways Game of Life](https://playgameoflife.com/) and I didn't want to get too nitty gritty into more fine details as this was more a challenge for me to build it rather than refine it for better performance as I figured that would take enough time on its own.  I'm glad I stuck with this approach as it took the better part of a week to get through it.  I also have a couple of little ones. Weekends are harder for me jump on anything and had to start a few days after the original start.  It's why I miss a lot of the live videos from the hot path show. :(

My main issue I kept running into was when I wanted to have knowledge of the current cell versus its surrounding cells I had to figure out how to get that data again and repeat through it.  The original creation had a single buffer for each cell for it's original data, such as location, index and isalive bool.  I also tried an approach of isalive as an enable component.  I did get some of it to work but I didn't like having to create more space in the data than needed and the part of figuring out how to access that data was the real head scratcher.  When I finally figured out I didn't need to do either of those options it was like a heavy burden lifted off of the shoulders and the development got tons faster to the tune of a day and a half.  I know most people figured that out right away but being very new to this I wanted to make sure I learned it the hard way as I tend to remember from previous mistakes more.  The code also seemed to be more direct after the changes.

I saw some really good and more simplified code out there for this project.  I took some of those ideas for myself, but "dumbed" it down so I could understand it then and in the future.  I'll get to that type of coding in the future I'm sure.  I also had to really think about how to implement that type of code with what I was doing.  I saw some had the grid as just a set whole number and mine was based on what could be a different number of columns vs. rows and had to account for that.  Like I said, I'm very grateful for the examples.

I did want to add a menu, a way to click on and off which cells a person would like to have on or off, or have the user just choose a random button before running the game.  The last things I would like to work on is better performance as well as the ever expanding grid idea.  I will probably look more into that since I'll have time after this to do that and I would really like to understand the marriage between the GUI and ECS as I'm new to all of it.  Right now I'm extremely happy just finishing the basics of this as I was really worried I wouldn't be able to finish it in the timeframe presented.

## Testing
On a performance basis, I'm not sure why, maybe less overhead of the editor, but the editor runs 1000x1000 grid of cells at half the FPS as the executable, the editor runs at about 30 FPS and the executable runs at a little higher than 60 fps.

I'm running with an Intel i7-10750H CPU @ 2.60 GHz [12 cores] and a NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2060.
